docs/parameters.md, before:

# Important parameters

!!! info
    See the Configuration files section in [Getting started](quickstart.md) to change the location of configuration files.

## ROS-related (config_ros.json)

- **acc_scale** (default 1.0) : Linear acceleration scaling factor. Set this to 9.80665 if the unit of IMU linear acceleration is [g] but not [m/s^2] (e.g., Livox LiDARs). 
- **(imu|points|image)_topics** : Input data topics.

## Sensor configuration (config_sensors.json)

- **T_lidar_imu** : Transformation from the IMU frame to the LiDAR frame (See [notation](extend.md##Notation)). When the IMU is at rest and the IMU z-axis points upwards, linear acceleration vector should be around [0, 0, +9.81] (See also [ROS REP 145](https://www.ros.org/reps/rep-0145.html) and [FAQ](faq.md)).

## Preprocessing (config_preprocess.json)

- **random_downsample_target** (default 10000 points): Target number of points for downsampling. Reducing the target number of points (e.g., to 5000) makes estimation significantly faster.

- **k_correspondences** (default 10 points): The number of neighboring points used for covariance estimation. For LiDARs with sparse scan patterns (e.g., Velodyne VLP16), increase this value to 15 ~ 30 to avoid degeneration of covariance matrices.

!!! note
    To see if estimated covariances are fine, change ```color_mode``` in the standard viewer to ```NORMAL```. If point colors are uniform on flat planes, covariances should be ok.

## GPU-based LiDAR-IMU Odometry Estimation (config_odometry.json)

- **voxel_resolution** (default 0.25 m) : Base VGICP voxel resolution. Use a small value for indoor environments (e.g., 0.1 ~ 0.25 m).
- **voxelmap_levels** (default 2 levels): Multi resolution voxel levels. Increasing this parameter makes estimation robust to large displacement.
- **max_num_keyframes** (default 15 keyframes): Maximum number of keyframes. Increasing this parameter reduces odometry estimation drift.
- **keyframe_update_strategy** (default OVERLAP): *"OVERLAP"*, *"DISPLACEMENT"*, or *"ENTROPY"*. 
    - *"OVERLAP"* uses an overlap-metric-based keyframe management strategy that can adaptively deal with many environments (indoors and outdoors). Increasing **keyframe_max_overlap** makes keyframe insertion more frequent and robust to dynamic situations.
    - *"DISPLACEMENT"* uses the conventional displacement-based keyframe management that is more intuitive to tune. Change **keyframe_delta_(trans|rot)** to tune the keyframe insertion frequency.
    - *"ENTROPY"* uses an entropy-based keyframe management. This strategy is often difficult to tune and is not recommended.

## CPU-based LiDAR-IMU Odometry Estimation (config_odometry_cpu.json)

- **registration_type** (default GICP) : Either of *"GICP"* or *"VGICP"*.
    - *"GICP"* uses iVox-based GICP scan matching that is accurate and robust in many cases.
        - **ivox_resolution** (default 0.5 m) : Resolution of iVox voxels used for GICP scan matching. This parameter also controls the maximum corresponding distance and should be set to a large value in outdoor environments (e.g., 1.0 m).

    - *"VGICP"* uses voxelized GICP scan matching that is faster but requires tuning **vgicp_resolution** parameter for good estimation in indoor environments.
        - **vgicp_resolution** (default 0.5 m) : Resolution of VIGP voxels used for VGICP scan matching. Use a small value for indoor environments (e.g., 0.25 ~ 0.5 m) and a large value for outdoor environments (0.5 ~ 2.0 m).

## LiDAR-only Odometry Estimation (config_odometry_ct.json)

- **max_correspondence_distance** (default 2.0 m) : Maximum corresponding distance for scan matching. 


## Global Optimization (config_sub_mapping.json & config_global_mapping.json)

### Sub mapping
- **enable_optimization** (default true) : In environments where the odometry estimation is sufficiently robust and accurate, you can set this false to disable submap optimization and save the processing cost.
- **keyframe-related params** : These parameters control the keyframe creation in sub mapping. See GPU-based LiDAR-IMU odometry params for details.

### Global mapping
- **min_implicit_loop_overlap** (default 0.2) : Minimum overlap rate to create registration error factor.

### Common parameters for sub and global mapping
- **enable_imu** (default true) : Must be false if the LiDAR-only odometry estimation is used.
- **registration_error_factor_type** (default "VGICP_GPU") : Registration error computation type. Must be either of *"VGICP"* or *"VGICP_GPU"*.
- **random_sampling_rate** (default 1.0) : Random sampling rate for points used for registration error computation. With the GPU implementation, you can use a large random sampling rate (e.g., 1.0 = disabling random sampling) to perform full global registration error minimization.
- **(submap|keyframe)_voxel_resolution** (default 0.5 m) : Base voxel resolution. Set a small value (e.g., 0.15 ~ 0.25 m) for indoor environments.
- **(submap|keyframe)_voxelmap_levels** (default 2 levels) : Multi resolution voxel levels. Set this param to 2 or 3 for better convergence.

Commit message:

pointer to sensor setup guide

docs/parameters.md, after:

# Important parameters

!!! info
    See the [sensor setup buide](https://github.com/koide3/glim/wiki/Sensor-setup-guide) for configurations of popular sensors (including Livox MID360 and Azure Kinect).

!!! info
    See the Configuration files section in [Getting started](quickstart.md) to change the location of configuration files.

## ROS-related (config_ros.json)

- **acc_scale** (default 1.0) : Linear acceleration scaling factor. Set this to 9.80665 if the unit of IMU linear acceleration is [g] but not [m/s^2] (e.g., Livox LiDARs). 
- **(imu|points|image)_topics** : Input data topics.

## Sensor configuration (config_sensors.json)

- **T_lidar_imu** : Transformation from the IMU frame to the LiDAR frame (See [notation](extend.md##Notation)). When the IMU is at rest and the IMU z-axis points upwards, linear acceleration vector should be around [0, 0, +9.81] (See also [ROS REP 145](https://www.ros.org/reps/rep-0145.html) and [FAQ](faq.md)).

## Preprocessing (config_preprocess.json)

- **random_downsample_target** (default 10000 points): Target number of points for downsampling. Reducing the target number of points (e.g., to 5000) makes estimation significantly faster.

- **k_correspondences** (default 10 points): The number of neighboring points used for covariance estimation. For LiDARs with sparse scan patterns (e.g., Velodyne VLP16), increase this value to 15 ~ 30 to avoid degeneration of covariance matrices.

!!! note
    To see if estimated covariances are fine, change ```color_mode``` in the standard viewer to ```NORMAL```. If point colors are uniform on flat planes, covariances should be ok.

## GPU-based LiDAR-IMU Odometry Estimation (config_odometry.json)

- **voxel_resolution** (default 0.25 m) : Base VGICP voxel resolution. Use a small value for indoor environments (e.g., 0.1 ~ 0.25 m).
- **voxelmap_levels** (default 2 levels): Multi resolution voxel levels. Increasing this parameter makes estimation robust to large displacement.
- **max_num_keyframes** (default 15 keyframes): Maximum number of keyframes. Increasing this parameter reduces odometry estimation drift.
- **keyframe_update_strategy** (default OVERLAP): *"OVERLAP"*, *"DISPLACEMENT"*, or *"ENTROPY"*. 
    - *"OVERLAP"* uses an overlap-metric-based keyframe management strategy that can adaptively deal with many environments (indoors and outdoors). Increasing **keyframe_max_overlap** makes keyframe insertion more frequent and robust to dynamic situations.
    - *"DISPLACEMENT"* uses the conventional displacement-based keyframe management that is more intuitive to tune. Change **keyframe_delta_(trans|rot)** to tune the keyframe insertion frequency.
    - *"ENTROPY"* uses an entropy-based keyframe management. This strategy is often difficult to tune and is not recommended.

## CPU-based LiDAR-IMU Odometry Estimation (config_odometry_cpu.json)

- **registration_type** (default GICP) : Either of *"GICP"* or *"VGICP"*.
    - *"GICP"* uses iVox-based GICP scan matching that is accurate and robust in many cases.
        - **ivox_resolution** (default 0.5 m) : Resolution of iVox voxels used for GICP scan matching. This parameter also controls the maximum corresponding distance and should be set to a large value in outdoor environments (e.g., 1.0 m).

    - *"VGICP"* uses voxelized GICP scan matching that is faster but requires tuning **vgicp_resolution** parameter for good estimation in indoor environments.
        - **vgicp_resolution** (default 0.5 m) : Resolution of VIGP voxels used for VGICP scan matching. Use a small value for indoor environments (e.g., 0.25 ~ 0.5 m) and a large value for outdoor environments (0.5 ~ 2.0 m).

## LiDAR-only Odometry Estimation (config_odometry_ct.json)

- **max_correspondence_distance** (default 2.0 m) : Maximum corresponding distance for scan matching. 


## Global Optimization (config_sub_mapping.json & config_global_mapping.json)

### Sub mapping
- **enable_optimization** (default true) : In environments where the odometry estimation is sufficiently robust and accurate, you can set this false to disable submap optimization and save the processing cost.
- **keyframe-related params** : These parameters control the keyframe creation in sub mapping. See GPU-based LiDAR-IMU odometry params for details.

### Global mapping
- **min_implicit_loop_overlap** (default 0.2) : Minimum overlap rate to create registration error factor.

### Common parameters for sub and global mapping
- **enable_imu** (default true) : Must be false if the LiDAR-only odometry estimation is used.
- **registration_error_factor_type** (default "VGICP_GPU") : Registration error computation type. Must be either of *"VGICP"* or *"VGICP_GPU"*.
- **random_sampling_rate** (default 1.0) : Random sampling rate for points used for registration error computation. With the GPU implementation, you can use a large random sampling rate (e.g., 1.0 = disabling random sampling) to perform full global registration error minimization.
- **(submap|keyframe)_voxel_resolution** (default 0.5 m) : Base voxel resolution. Set a small value (e.g., 0.15 ~ 0.25 m) for indoor environments.
- **(submap|keyframe)_voxelmap_levels** (default 2 levels) : Multi resolution voxel levels. Set this param to 2 or 3 for better convergence.
